dear fellow scholars this is papers in
two minutes with Robert Samuel
Konigsberg miles okay I'm making this
video for a few reasons firstly I've had
a lot of comments from people saying
they'd like me to do videos like Cara
Lee shown over here over at two minute
papers so this is that if you confused
link in the description check out that
channel it's amazing secondly this video
is a follow-up to a video of me that
recently went out on computer file about
generative adversarial networks
definitely check that out if you haven't
yet again link in the description this
video will make a lot more sense if
you've seen that one so on the computer
file video there were a fairly large
number of comments about there not being
enough pictures in that video not enough
sort of demonstrations or visualizations
of the actual images being produced by
these networks and that's largely my
fault I told Sean I would send him links
of the papers I was talking about and I
forgot to do that but we can talk about
them here so at the end of that video I
was talking about doing arithmetic on
the vectors in the latent space if you
take your men wearing sunglasses vector
subtract the man vector and add the
woman vector you get a point in your
space and if you run that through the
generator you get a woman wearing
sunglasses and people were asking if
that was a real thing or hypothetical
and if they could see pictures of and so
on so that came from this paper
unsupervised representation learning
with deep convolutional generative
adversarial networks by Radford and Metz
and I was talking specifically about
figure seven there's a link to this
paper in the description as well so you
can see here you have a bunch of images
of men wearing sunglasses and then the
average of all of those lake vectors is
this image of a man whose glasses then
we do the same thing for a man without
glasses and a woman without glasses and
then we can do arithmetic on those input
vectors and find that man with glasses
- man without glasses plus woman without
glasses gives us images of a woman with
glasses they've also got another one
here in this same figure that does the
same thing with smiling so you take a
smiling woman vector subtract the vector
for a woman with a neutral expression
and then add the vector for a man with a
neutral expression and you get a smiling
man which is pretty cool
so we can see that movements in the
latent space have meaning in human
understandable aspects of the image I
also mentioned that if you take that
point and smoothly move it around the
latent space you get a smoothly varying
picture of a cat now when I said that
I've never actually seen anyone do it I
just figured from the mathematics that
it was possible but just after that
video went live this paper was made
available which included as part of
their demo video exactly that smoothly
moving around the latent space to
produce smoothly varying cat pictures
and the results are terrifying actually
I like how the network decided that
black bordered white text in the impact
font is an important component of a cat
image or never happened but the core
point of this paper relates to something
else I said in the computer file video
they're fairly low resolution right now
protip whenever you mention some
limitation of a I always add right now
or yet because there's probably someone
out there at that very moment working on
something that'll prove you wrong anyway
this new paper uses a fascinating
technique of growing the neural network
as it's being trained so new layers of
neurons are added as the training
progresses to allow very large networks
without having to train such a large
number of neurons from the very
beginning this allows the system to
generate unprecedented ly high
resolution images I mean look at these
results it's just just beautiful it's
nice to be able to take a break from
being deeply concerned about the impact
of a eye on the future of humanity and
just be deeply concerned about the
output of this network what is that what
is that yeah anyway I'm sure you're now
wondering assuming I can get this video
out before everyone's already seen this
what it looks like to smoothly move
around the latent space for this
celebrity faces Network it looks like
this
I'm just gonna let this run I think it's
completely mesmerizing there's a link in
the description to the video that I got
this from which has a lot more examples
of the things that they can do with this
technique and it's really really
excellent there's also a link to the
paper you can read that as well
you
I want to thank my generous patrons
these people and in this video I'm
especially thanking Alexander Hartwig
Nielsen who supported the channel for a
really long time thank you so much I
want to apologize to two minute papers
and say thank you for watching and for
your generous support and I'll see you
next time